=pod

=encoding utf-8

=head1 WARNING

Because of the not fully understood test failures this module is
still considered to be a B<beta release>.

On the other hand I have never received any reports - which either
means that nobody uses it or that it does work as intended ;-)

Please open a bug report on L<https://rt.perl.org/> or send me a
mail if you encounter any problems.

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use CHI;
 
    my $cache = CHI->new (
        driver          => 'MongoDB',
        namespace       => 'foo',
        # optional, default: _CHI_
        db_name         => '...',
        # optional, default: mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017
        connection_uri  => '...',
        # optional
        mongodb_options => { ... },
    );

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Driver to use L<MongoDB> as storage back end for L<CHI>.

L<CHI> C<namespace>s are translated to L<MongoDB> collections, so you 
can use the same database name for all CHI instances (or simply use 
the default and omit the parameter).

The driver supports the C<expires_on_backend> option, but be aware that
the expiration actually happens within a short but unspecified time 
frame B<after> the exact expiration timeout (cf. L</"FAILING TESTS">).

By default the MongoDB server is expected to be available on localhost,
port 27017. Pass the C<connection_uri> param to override this.
For testing purposes, set the C<MONGODB_CONNECTION_URI> environment
variable.

=head1 CONSTRUCTOR OPTIONS

=over 4

=item C<connection_uri>: String

Where the MongoDB server is listening. By default, 
C<mongodb://127.0.0.1:27017> is used.

See L<MongoDB::MongoClient/"CONNECTION-STRING-URI"> for details.

=item C<db_name>: String

The database name inside MongoDB. Defaults to C<_CHI_>.
The name is arbitrary but should of course not clash with your other
databases.

=item C<mongodb_options>: HASHREF

Arbitrary options which are passed to the constructor of the underlying
L<MongoDB::MongoClient> object.

=back

=head1 FAILING TESTS

Currently, you should expect four failing tests from the CHI test suite:
94, 205-206, 904.

=over 4

=item B<94>: C<Failed test 'threw Regexp ((?^:discard timeout .* reached))'>

I do not know yet, why the test functions succeeds while it is supposed
to C<die>.

=item B<205>: C<Failed test 'cannot get_object(key0) after expire'>

=item B<206>: C<Failed test 'cannot get_object(key1) after expire'>

MongoDB uses a dedicated thread to remove documents whose lifetime has
expired. It checks the stored documents periodically but that means
there is a short period of time between the moment a document expires
and the moment it is actually removed.
This should be no problem for our caching purposes but is the reason
why these tests fail.

=item B<904> C<Failed test 'test_serializers died (Insecure dependency in eval while running with -T switch...>

No idea yet what is wrong here.

=back

Fixing the second and third failing test may not be possible at all,
but I haven't yet found a way to disable indiviual tests.

Other than these four, 944 subtests succeed while 67 are skipped.

I have seen test runs where for some unknown reason a large number of
tests fail. I do not know why that happens. The MongoDB database is
dropped and recreated on every run of the test suite.
On simply re-running the whole test usually only the four tests shown
above fail.

=head1 TODO

In no particular order:

=over 4

=item Allow passing in a preconfigured L<MongoDB> object.

=item Allow using L<Mango> instead of L<MongoDB>.

=item Implement C<store_multi ( $key_data, $options )> method.

=item Implement LRU discard policy.

=item Implement support for size awareness in the back end.

B<Caveat>: As of version 3.2 MongoDB supports collections that either
have a finite size (in bytes or in number of stored documents) or 
support the automatic expiration handling but not both!

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<CHI>, L<CHI::Driver::Development>, L<MongoDB>

